The European university
of the Netherlands
A caring and sustainable university
Strategic programme
2022 - 2026
Young at heart, we are an
interdisciplinary, inclusive
academic community.
Together with our partners
near and far, we are
committed to playing our
part in solving major issues
in society.
2
This strategic programme outlines the ambitions and
overarching vision of Maastricht University (UM) for the
next five years. The implementation of the programme
will be supported by annual plans and strategic objectives.
Our ambitions and vision can be summarised as follows:
We are the pre-eminent European university of the
Netherlands; through regional partnerships and solutions
we contribute to societal challenges, with a focus on the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Our inclusive and inspiring academic community aspires
to be open and accessible to everyone.
As a campus-based university and innovator in education,
we enrich Problem-Based Learning (PBL) with technology
to educate professionals with a broad global basis and
orientation.
Based on our strong tradition in and focus on inter- and
transdisciplinary research, we link academic disciplines
with European and global challenges.
As a socially responsible university, we work with public
and private partners to create value for society and
improve the wellbeing of citizens in our region and beyond.
3
UM: an ambitious
university that cares
for its community
4
Profile
Mission
UM is a European university with an international orientation, operating at the
heart of society and firmly rooted in the region. Ever since it was founded, the
university has worked across borders, with a particular focus on the Euregion. Here,
we connect education and research internationally, analyse societal issues in their
full breadth and reinforce the labour market through the triple-helix collaboration.
We have an open and inclusive academic culture, an international community
and a strong focus on innovative and interdisciplinary education and research.
Our community is composed of students, lecturers, researchers, support staff and
alumni.
As the pre-eminent European university in the Netherlands, our core values
are diversity and inclusion, sustainability, mutual respect, integrity, democratic
principles and transparency. We take our social responsibility seriously by forging
links between the university and society, from the local to the global level.
Moreover, as a solid and resilient international community, we hold ourselves
accountable for the future of our world. This entails paying special attention to
the urgent challenges of the 21st century, such as securing a sustainable future for
our society. We endorse the SDGs, to which we contribute by critically assessing
them while also working to achieve the intended outcomes through research,
education and national and international collaboration. We focus in particular on
good health and wellbeing (SDG 3), quality education (SDG 4), climate action (SDG
13) and peace, justice and strong public institutions (SDG 16). We also contribute
to several other SDGs, such as reducing inequality (SDG 10), fostering responsible
consumption and production (SDG 12) and building partnerships (SDG 17).
At the heart of our mission is to offer students from all over the world the
opportunity to develop into active, globally oriented citizens and critical
thinkers. With small-scale Problem-Based Learning (PBL) in an international and
intercultural setting, we train our students to become active citizens who can
make a meaningful contribution to society. The combination of PBL, which we
enrich with technology, and the International Classroom concept, which fosters
the development of global citizenship competences, provides students with an
inspiring educational environment that prepares them to live and work in a society
and global labour market that are forever in flux. Students have the freedom to
pursue their personal development in a broad sense, in and outside the formal
curriculum, while we work to safeguard their wellbeing. Moreover, education and
research at UM are inextricably linked. Our inter- and transdisciplinary research
embodies such values as innovation, sustainability and social responsibility. We
continuously strive to improve and innovate our education and research and to
work towards solutions to the issues facing European society today. Our ambition
is to be a catalyst for Euregional and European development and, building on this
foundation, to forge links with the world to tackle global challenges.
5
Vision
Our vision revolves around educating talented students and working on major
societal themes. Leading the way in this effort is our solid and resilient international
community. We are able to generate impact through the interdependence of
education and research and their connection with societal themes. Building on
our existing disciplines and holistic approach, we are expanding our exact sciences
and forging links between the exact, medical and social sciences and humanities
through the Sciences+ concept. Crucial to this end is our intensive collaboration with
the Maastricht University Medical Centre+ (Maastricht UMC+) and the Brightlands
campuses, which serve as a driving force for Euregional and European development
in a global context.
All this gives rise to economic and societal cooperation, with the region and
university becoming increasingly intertwined. The combination of these factors
enables us to add value regionally, nationally and internationally in our own unique
way. In support of these ambitions, we are developing modern and integrated
operations that can respond quickly to changing circumstances, while remaining
open to other ways of working and collaborating.
6
7
Our community:
resilient, engaged
and professional
Where do we want to be in 2026?
By 2026 UM is a close-knit, engaged community that is both resilient and
professional. Our members form an international and diverse group, and
UM is known for its open, inclusive and inspiring academic culture. As a
caring university, we pay close attention to the wellbeing and sustainable
employability of our community. We offer staff and students the space to
develop academically, professionally and personally in an environment that
fosters open and respectful dialogue. At the same time, we have a strong
focus on the SDGs, particularly SDGs 3, 4, 13 and 16. With our emphasis on
operational excellence, we have developed modern, integrated and agile
operations that not only support but also strengthen the primary process.
8
Focus on students
UM is proud of its students, employees and alumni. Our close-knit community
is resilient, loyal and professional, and our members form an international and
diverse group. As the pre-eminent European university in the Netherlands, UM
strives for an open, inclusive and inspiring academic culture, where academic
citizenship1 is a matter of course which is recognised and rewarded. Our aim
is for diverse students and employees to feel at home here, and for alumni to
remain full-fledged members of our community, wherever they reside. Based on
sustainable, meaningful and reciprocal relationships, the UM community in a broad
sense makes a crucial contribution to the further development of the university.
All members of our community are offered a genuine ‘Maastricht University
experience’. This holds for students, irrespective of whether they join us in person or
online, have local roots or an international background, remain in the region after
graduating or go out into the world as our ambassadors. And it holds for staff, too,
whether they are focused on teaching, research, or providing the support services
that make teaching and research possible. Diversity strengthens and unites us
and contributes to the development of both our university and our immediate
environment. In all this, the wellbeing of our community is paramount. As a caring
university with a complete package of supporting activities, we safeguard the
wellbeing of our staff and students.
Naturally, we are also paying close attention to the impact of digitalisation on our
university and society in terms of how we learn, work, interact, spend our free
time and more. This constant alertness enables us to respond to the opportunities
and challenges of digital technology in our education and research as well as our
business operations. In doing so, we take into account the transformative nature of
new technologies for the opportunities and challenges of the digital society.
We strive to create a safe environment that fosters open and constructive dialogue.
Students are given the freedom to develop academically, professionally and
personally into active, globally oriented citizens with 21st century skills, ready to
strike out on their careers. Additional study-related activities – which we recognise
and reward with extracurricular credits – allow students to develop both as
individuals and as members of society. At the same time, we acknowledge the
increasing societal pressure placed on students today to achieve high results. To
counter this, we are investing in resources to enhance students’ wellbeing and
resilience. We will continue to provide psychological support with a particular
focus on prevention, which is of benefit for all students. We will also continue the
initiatives of Caring Universities, an international partnership focused on improving
students’ psychological wellbeing. Additionally, we provide support for students
with disabilities and care tasks. For international students, we have established an
1 Academic citizenship refers to a wide variety of essential duties that sometimes go unnoticed,
but which all members of our community – be it individually or in teams – perform for the
institution, the academic community and society.
9
International Student Helpdesk and other facilities. In everything we do, students
are front and centre and are offered all the support they need to develop into self-
reliant critical thinkers, active citizens and professionals.
Focus on employees
We support our employees in their everyday work and their careers, offering them
a modern working environment with a view to the work of the future. With full
confidence in their abilities, discipline and collegial ties, we empower staff to work
when and where appropriate, in line with the needs of both the university and the
individual employee. A good work–life balance that emphasises health and safety
is paramount. As a family-friendly university, UM will facilitate the combination of
care tasks and work or study.
In addition, we aim to strengthen our employees’ sense of community by investing
in societal interaction and cohesion both in person and online. We are working on a
new, balanced system for recognising and rewarding all employees (academic and
support staff) that is better attuned to the various core tasks of a university, while
also allowing room for diversity. We prioritise quality over quantity, and place value
on teamwork just as we do individual performance. Indeed, we value all activities,
domains and aspirations that contribute to the success of our university across the
board. In the firm belief that this requires good leadership, we are also investing in
the development and recognition of responsible leadership skills. Our leadership
philosophy is based on principles such as safety, trust, connection, engagement and
openness. This attention for our employees will foster sustainable employability
and help us to work towards a more balanced workload for our employees.
Contributing to a sustainable future
Sustainability is another top priority within our community. To this end, we aim to
make significant contributions to the SDGs, first and foremost here in Maastricht,
but also in a broader, global context. By 2030, UM seeks to be a fully sustainable
university and a driver of sustainable development through its contributions
to the world’s most pressing problems, such as the climate crisis. In terms of
our operations, we are committed to reducing our ecological footprint: we are
striving for a CO2-neutral future and working to enhance circularity, health and
wellbeing. Our buildings should be sustainable, versatile and efficient – ‘smart
buildings’ that make use of technology to facilitate the work of the future. Our
education and office concepts are tailored to this vision and to the needs of our
community; for students and employees, our buildings provide an inspiring and
appealing environment. Other spearheads include (re)usability and the protection
of biodiversity.
10
All this is based on sound information provision regarding our operations, students,
employees and research. Our entire community is actively involved in contributing
to a sustainable future and the transition to a circular economy, both close to home
and well beyond Maastricht. We also contribute our scientific expertise to societal
debates on sustainability and the Green New Deal.
Investing in our operations
Excellent business practices underpin the development and activities of our
community. We strive for modern, integrated and agile operations that support
and strengthen our primary education and research processes. This calls for close
alignment and interconnection between the systems in HR, finance, procurement,
facilities and more. With respect to all internal and external stakeholders, we are
committed to transparency and accountability in accordance with the prevailing
societal standards and national and international best practices.
Our approach to operations is driven by standardisation, harmonisation and
automation of administrative processes. An innovative digital infrastructure is a
prerequisite if we wish to achieve our goal of an integrated chain approach that
capitalises on synergies with transparent dependencies, ownership arrangements
and responsibilities. This is crucial for UM’s further development and will enable us
to strive towards the future while properly accommodating for the growth of the
university.
11
Our university in its
context: vital contributions
to a flourishing Euregion
Where do we want to be in 2026?
UM aspires to be the pre-eminent driver of economic and societal
development in the region. Through education and research, our community –
in collaboration with public and private partners – makes a major contribution
to creating and spreading prosperity in the region. We work closely with the
Maastricht UMC+ and pursue valorisation on the Brightlands campuses.
To this end, our academics are supported by a clearly defined framework
in which integrity is of paramount importance. In the context of lifelong
development, a range of appealing initiatives has been developed for
students and professionals, focused on the needs of the region, the
Netherlands, Europe and the rest of the world.
12
With its outstanding education and research, UM makes a major contribution
to the development of a sustainable, healthy and economically stable region.
Particularly through the Brightlands campuses, we translate our research into
economic or social value through a broad range of initiatives. As a socially engaged
European university, we are committed to spreading prosperity – not only locally, in
the city of Maastricht and the province of Limburg, but also in the Euregion, Europe
and worldwide. Societal engagement is an explicit aspect of research and education
at UM, pursued by our entire international community.
Our contribution to the region
In education, initiatives such as MATCH, YUFE and Maastricht Working on Europe
(MWoE) bring students together with local residents. By challenging students
to make an active contribution (e.g. through voluntary work), we offer them the
opportunity to develop into responsible global citizens with strong local ties. In
addition, UM enters into strategic alliances with public and private partners to
invest in projects and initiatives that make an important societal contribution to
the region. We will continue our collaboration with such partners as the Maastricht
UMC+, the Province of Limburg, Radboud University Nijmegen, the Netherlands
Organisation for applied scientific research (TNO) and Zuyd University of Applied
Sciences.
We are particularly proud of our partnership with the Maastricht UMC+, which
involves sharing human resources in the form of academic clinicians and
collaborating on education and research. Given the increasing importance of
medical technology (MedTech), we are committed to strengthening ties between
the Maastricht UMC+ and the faculties FHML and FSE. The research themes
regenerative medicine and personalised medicine offer excellent opportunities to
develop meaningful collaboration.
The campuses as engines for the future
With their unique concept, the four Brightlands campuses form the basis for our
valorisation activities. Rather than investing in a classic science park, UM focuses
on co-creation with existing business parks. These strategic development hubs
offer a vital ecosystem around themes of value for society and the economy, such
as circular chemistry and materials, health, agri-food, AI/data science and smart
digital services. The campuses attract students, start-ups and SMEs, knowledge
workers and leading researchers, and have developed into engines for the future
of the province of Limburg. They create career opportunities for our students and
contribute to talent development in the region. Importantly, they are focused on
themes that draw on the expertise of various UM faculties, guaranteeing an inter-
and transdisciplinary perspective and optimising impact. We provide support and
guidance for our scientists in their valorisation and knowledge transfer activities,
emphasising the importance of integrity at all times.
13
The valorisation activities also have a strong focus on sustainability, one of UM’s
core values. For example, we contribute to the Circular Hub, aimed at transforming
Limburg into a circular society revolving around the Chemelot industrial site and
the accompanying Brightlands research and development campus. Another key
development is the AI Hub Brightlands, in which we are bundling our expertise in
AI and data science with that of other parties in the Dutch AI Coalition to foster
prosperity and wellbeing in our region and beyond.
Lifelong development
As befits our strong societal focus, we have developed an appealing package
of initiatives for lifelong development. These initiatives are based on academic
research and its translation to students, employees, alumni and external
professionals. In the coming years, we will integrate competences such as global
citizenship and 21st century skills into courses for students, enabling them to
continue their personal and professional development after graduating. We
will continue to work on a well-rounded package for our employees while also
expanding our offer of postgraduate programmes for professionals, with specific
emphasis on collaborating with other knowledge institutions to develop strong,
multidisciplinary postgraduate programmes for a broad target group. Serving in this
way as a knowledge partner for the regional knowledge chain and labour market
will enable us to make an important contribution to society.
14
15
Education: a PBL foundation,
enriched by technology
Where do we want to be in 2026?
In 2026 the innovative PBL pedagogy is even more strongly anchored at UM,
complemented by technology. This gives us a solid foundation from which
we can offer students a flexible, dynamic and high-quality education using
a combination of teaching formats. We will achieve this by investing in
educational innovation and research, spearheaded by EDLAB as well as the
faculties. UM offers modern and interdisciplinary study programmes and
imparts on its students the core values of global citizenship. Our teachers form
a crucial and indispensable link, receiving all the support they need to do their
work effectively. To this end we are investing in a sound HR policy, teacher
professionalisation and technological infrastructure.
16
As the pre-eminent European university of the Netherlands, UM stands for high-
quality, contemporary and innovative education, where students from all over the
world participate in small-scale Problem-Based Learning (PBL) in an international
and intercultural setting. We have developed a portfolio of bachelor’s and master’s
programmes that prepare students for the changing needs of the national and
international labour market while also encouraging and facilitating their endless
curiosity. We also increase interaction with the Brightlands campuses by offering
on-site education and linking students with the Brightlands community. By building
bridges across disciplines, our educational approach contributes to solutions to
pressing societal issues, which call for an integrated and interdisciplinary approach.
We aim to expand our portfolio with the exact sciences, linking them with the
medical sciences, social sciences and humanities through the Sciences+ concept.
In line with our identity as a European university with a broad international
orientation – not just within, but also beyond Europe’s borders – we impart on
our students the core values of global citizenship2. In our teaching methods, we
invest in guiding a heterogeneous and international student population through an
academic education that prepares them to launch their careers as resilient young
professionals and active global citizens. We are also exploring how we can link
flexible learning paths for students to PBL.
PBL as core value …
PBL has been a core value ever since the university was founded. It is reflected
in all aspects of UM, from the infrastructure to our flexible support systems and
the content of our teacher professionalisation programmes (CPD and UTQ). The
core values of PBL are – and will remain – constructive, collaborative, contextual
and self-directed (CCCS). Through EDLAB, our institute for educational innovation,
we are constantly working to further develop the PBL approach, particularly by
enriching our education with digital technology.
… supplemented by technology
The amalgamation of PBL and technology gives rise to the concept of technology-
enhanced education. This involves the use of technology to achieve the intended
learning outcomes in an effective, efficient and appealing manner, aimed at flexible
and adaptive education. Examples include the use of blended learning and the
hybrid virtual classroom. We are facilitated in this effort by Canvas (our learning
management system) and through experimentation with innovative hardware,
2 ‘Global citizenship’ consists of three elements: 1) global literacy: the ability to grasp world
problems and take into account other perspectives, 2) social responsibility: the development
of soft skills and attitudes such as empathy and morality, and 3) transformative engagement:
working with others to apply the knowledge acquired with a view to effecting change.
17
such as devices for virtual and augmented reality (VR/AR) and specially equipped
spaces for digital collaboration (active learning classrooms).
Enriching our education through technology is not, however, an end in itself.
Our education is campus-based: we consider academic and social connection a
prerequisite for optimal learning and the student experience. Nonetheless, the
combination of face-to-face and technology-enhanced education opens up a space
for the use of diverse educational formats. UM has frameworks in place that help
educators determine which technology could be used, when and how.
Further educational innovation
We are constantly conducting research focused on the innovation of education
under the banner of EDLAB, which brings together educational researchers from
different disciplines and faculties. Naturally, lecturers too play a crucial role in
technology-enhanced education. They are facilitated in their daily work by good
information provision, teacher professionalisation initiatives (including attention
for digital literacy) and an efficient system of quality assurance. Also indispensable
are technologies that promote independent study by making materials and
resources available to students at the moment they are needed. We are investing
in a learning environment and a teacher portal that provide insight into students’
progress, make recommendations to optimise their studies and support them with
tailored follow-up activities. To this end, we are working on a virtual academic
environment for both students and staff.
Education at UM flourishes when it is supported and facilitated by a quality
assurance system that draws on reliable data and analyses. At the same time, it is
important that our education logistics – a crucial factor in our small-scale approach
– continue to develop. This calls for harmonisation, simplification and transparency;
three core values for which we have already laid strong foundations with the ITK
and CeQuInt accreditations. In the coming years, we will intensify our efforts in this
area.
18
19
Research: towards
solutions for society
Where do we want to be in 2026?
In 2026, research at UM will further strengthen our ties with the world around
us, from the local to the global level and from citizens to professionals. Our
academics conduct relevant research that contributes to the resolution of
societal challenges. To this end, they are supported by high-quality research
facilities and a solid quality-assurance system. Above all, UM has a sustainable
research climate, emphasising ethics and integrity, open science and policies
for attracting and retaining talented researchers. UM is known nationally
and internationally for its focus on Sciences+ – a balanced cross-fertilisation
between the exact, medical and social sciences and humanities – and for its
thematic research profile focused on Europe and a Globalising World,
Learning & Innovation, Quality of Life and Sustainability & Circularity.
20
UM has a strong focus on and tradition in inter- and transdisciplinary research,
ranging along a continuum from fundamental to more applied research. Our
research contributes to solving societal issues, both regionally and beyond. As far
as possible, we translate research into economic and social value, primarily (but
not exclusively) through the Brightlands campuses. This is also a key focus in our
collaboration with the Maastricht UMC+. In addition, research conducted at UM is
interwoven into education at every level.
First-class research climate
As a European university, we offer an appealing research climate that welcomes
scientists and scholars from all over the world. High-quality research facilities
enable them to conduct leading research in a broad range of academic disciplines.
From a strong basis in fundamental and monodisciplinary research, we connect
researchers in order to foster inter- and transdisciplinary research. All this happens
in an environment in which safety, inclusivity, collaboration, scientific ethics and
integrity are of paramount importance. Open Science is the norm, which entails
stakeholder participation, FAIR data principles and data management, open-access
publications and other research output, and more. Thanks to this first-class research
climate, UM can attract and retain talented academics from all over the world.
Expansion of exact sciences
Building on our existing disciplines and an inter- and transdisciplinary approach, in
the coming years we will further expand our position in the exact sciences. We are
committed to Sciences+, where the plus refers to the integrated cross-fertilisation
between disciplines and faculties from the exact, medical and social sciences and
humanities in the analysis of societal issues. This holistic approach reduces the
distance between scientific innovations and social applicability – something from
which both public and private parties can benefit. The further development of the
exact sciences and the FSE is our priority, which we intend to pursue in a broader
scientific context.
We are especially proud of the ET Pathfinder, a prototype and scale model of the
Einstein Telescope. This globally unique facility is a milestone in the development
of the FSE in particular and the exact sciences at UM in general. Naturally, we
will continue to invest in our other faculties and in other academic fields. The
development of the exact sciences and their combination with the social sciences
and humanities, together with Maastricht’s traditional strengths in medicine and
health sciences, will enable us to conduct innovative research with social impact
and to attract external funding. Naturally, we collaborate with national and
international parties to generate synergy and take advantage of complementary
expertise.
21
Fourth research theme: Sustainability and Circularity
We intend to maintain our current research profile with the themes Quality of
Life, Learning and Innovation, and Europe and a Globalising World. To this we are
adding a fourth theme: ‘Sustainability and Circularity’. As the birthplace of the
European Union and a border city at the crossroads of Germany, Belgium and the
Netherlands, where different languages and cultures converge, Maastricht is the
ideal place to study Europe in the context of a globalising world. The theme Quality
of Life, which emphasises personalised medicine and links medicine with other
scientific disciplines, ties in seamlessly with our collaboration with the Maastricht
UMC+. Going forward, this will require more intensive collaboration both within
the Maastricht UMC+ and between the Maastricht UMC+ and the faculties.
UM’s educational research in the Learning and Innovation theme dovetails with
our educational vision. This research makes a crucial contribution to the further
optimisation of our education, as well as to current issues such as digitalisation,
inclusion and diversity, the International Classroom and the connection to the
labour market.
As for Sustainability and Circularity, this new theme reflects the urgent need for
universities to play an active and visible role in pursuing the SDGs. Circularity
focuses on cycles of raw materials, while sustainability relates more broadly
to people, the environment and prosperity. The theme is therefore relevant for
all faculties and ties in seamlessly with our social responsibility towards our
community and planet by promoting sustainable development and broad-based
prosperity. We approach this theme from a broad and holistic perspective that
goes beyond a focus on the use and reuse of materials. With our research (and
education) on sustainability and circularity, as well as the related valorisation
efforts through the Brightlands campuses, UM is accelerating the transition to
a sustainable society with circular solutions. An excellent example of this is our
research and education on Circular Engineering, with which we contribute to the
Circular Hub.
22
23
Internationalisation:
European network university
with a global outlook
Where do we want to be in 2026?
Internationalisation and Europe are embedded in the history and the DNA of
the university. In 2026, UM aims to be known as the pre-eminent European
university in the Netherlands; a European university with a global orientation.
UM is a unique hub, ‘living lab’ and expertise centre for Europe revolving
around the question: what does Europe mean for the world, and what does
the world mean for Europe? We provide an international learning experience
and environment for all students and staff, supported by a strong quality-
assurance system for internationalisation. Our International Classroom,
international networks and partnerships, exchange programmes and focus
on cross-border mobility enhance the quality of our education and research.
The international character of our community makes an important
contribution to the region.
24
UM is the pre-eminent European university in the Netherlands, with worldwide
connections sprouting from a solid base in our Euregion. Located in the heart of
Europe, we are an open and accessible community where all cultures, perspectives
and ideas come together. With open arms and full of conviction, we welcome
talented people from all over the world. This enables us to create added value for
the regional labour market and for Dutch society, making an impact from the local
to the global level. We are also firm advocates of the internationalisation of
education and research. As a ‘living lab’ and expertise centre for Europe, UM is ideally
positioned to showcase a ‘Europe strategy’ that simultaneously strengthens our
continued global commitment and extends our opportunities for global engagement.
A European focus …
Our European profile is reflected in and reinforced by our unique international
student population and our many cross-border collaborations and study
programmes, research programmes and other initiatives with a European focus,
in particular our campus in Brussels – the capital of Europe – as well as ITEM,
Maastricht Working on Europe (MWoE) and YUFE.
YUFE is a prime example of the development of a European ecosystem for
education and research. An alliance between UM and nine other young European
universities and industry partners, YUFE aims to develop and implement a new
vision for the European university of the future. The idea is that future students
will be able to compose their own curricula from subjects offered by any YUFE
university, thereby earning a European diploma in addition to a degree specific
to UM. In this context, UM has the potential to develop into a university of
European stature. All these initiatives, which bring together regional, national and
international partners, are inextricably linked. The combination of these initiatives
makes us unique in the Netherlands as a motor of European innovation, at the
same time ensuring that we can play our role as a knowledge engine for the region.
… and global engagement
Building on this European perspective, we are also investing in global engagement.
Cooperation between Europe and the rest of the world is essential for realising just
and sustainable societies and eradicating poverty. We contribute to this through
numerous education and research programmes, our international population of
staff and students, and international development cooperation with partners in the
Global South, with an emphasis on equality and common interests. Our attention
for diversity and inclusion as well as our increasing focus on the SDGs offer
opportunities to improve access to UM for first-generation students, strengthen
the International Classroom and build on UM’s global reputation. Close cooperation
with UNU, through the unique joint institute UNU-MERIT (particularly in terms
of research and education related to the SDGs), is also of paramount importance.
Further, our many international research collaborations contribute to our successes
in European research funding programmes.
25
Talented students for the (inter)national labour market
We offer all our students an international study experience through curricula that
are internationalised in terms of content, format and quality assurance. We are
committed to developing inclusive curricula that, in line with the SDGs, promote
equality and accessibility in a broad sense. While we are an excellent European
university, we are not elitist: our focus is first and foremost on talent. This is
illustrated by our Foundation Programme, which prepares international students
to embark on their bachelor’s degree. We welcome all students and provide
them with an international learning experience and environment, based on the
International Classroom and international themes embedded in our research and
education portfolio. We are committed to innovation in education and research,
with sustainability as an important point of reference. All our students develop
global citizenship competences geared to the needs of the labour market, making
them highly employable. This is supported by a quality-assurance system for
internationalisation through which we continuously strive for progress. Knowledge
security is a crucial focus in this regard: a balance between openness and security
that is continuously revised in the context of geopolitical developments.
Connected in international networks
We will strengthen our profile as a network university and actively seek new
opportunities for international collaboration. UM plays an active role in networks,
platforms and associations that foster international collaboration in education
and research. We will continue to build relationships with our current university
partners in the YERUN and WUN networks and with other preferred partners
in the Euregion and worldwide. With strategically selected international
partnerships, exchange programmes and a focus on cross-border mobility, we
optimise our research and education quality and our international work and
learning environment. As demonstrated by our partnership with York University
and multiple non-European partners, this goes beyond the borders of the EU.
Such partnerships enable us to make an important contribution to major societal
challenges, from the local to the global level.
Closer to home, the ongoing strategic development of Campus Brussels, the
Brightlands ecosystem and the cooperation with partner universities in the
Euregion and the Benelux area also offer opportunities to make an important
contribution to societal challenges across the region.
26
Appendix
-
-
-
List of faculties
List of bachelor’s, pre-master’s and master’s programmes
List of research institutes and schools
July 2021
Design: Zuiderlicht
Photography: Philip Driessen
www.maastrichtuniversity.nl
Want to see more and navigate your way through the strategic
programme? Watch the interactive video here.
The European university
of the Netherlands
A caring and sustainable university
Strategic programme 2022 – 2026
Executive summary
Young at heart, we are an
interdisciplinary, inclusive
academic community. Together
with our partners near and far,
we are committed to playing
our part in solving major issues
in society.
As the pre-eminent European university of the Netherlands, we strive to
resolve challenges in society through regional partnerships and solutions.
We are an internationally oriented university, operating at the heart of
society and firmly rooted in the region.
Our core values are diversity and inclusion, sustainability, mutual respect,
integrity, democratic principles and transparency.
UM: an ambitious university that cares for its resilient, engaged and professional community
→ UM is characterised by an open and inclusive academic culture. As a caring
university with a complete package of supporting activities, we safeguard the
wellbeing of our students and staff.
→ We support our employees in their everyday work and their careers, offering them a
modern working environment with a view to the work of the future and a balanced
system for recognising and rewarding all employees.
→ Sustainability is a top priority within our community. To this end, we aim to
make significant contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). By
2030, UM seeks to be a fully sustainable university and a driver of sustainable
development.
→ We strive for modern, integrated and agile operations that support and strengthen
our primary education and research processes. We pay close attention to the
impact of digitisation on our university and society in terms of how we learn, work,
interact, spend our free time and more.
Our university in its context: vital contributions to a flourishing Euregion
→ As a socially engaged European university, we are committed to spreading
prosperity. UM makes a major contribution to the development of a sustainable,
healthy and economically stable region. We translate our research into economic or
societal value through a broad range of initiatives on the Brightlands campuses and
across the university as a whole.
→ As befits our strong societal focus, we develop an appealing package of initiatives
for lifelong development.
Education: a PBL foundation, enriched by technology
→ Through small-scale Problem-Based Learning (PBL) in an international and
intercultural setting, we train our students to become active globally oriented
citizens and critical thinkers who can make a meaningful contribution to society.
→ As a campus-based university and innovator in education, we enrich PBL with
technology to educate professionals with a broad global basis and orientation.
The amalgamation of PBL and technology gives rise to the concept of technology-
enhanced education.
Research: towards solutions for society
→ We offer an appealing research climate that welcomes scientists and scholars from
all over the world. Our research profile comprises four themes: Quality of Life,
Learning and Innovation, Europe and a Globalising World, and Sustainability and
Circularity.
→ We are expanding the exact sciences at UM and are committed to forging balanced
links between the exact, medical and social sciences and humanities through the
Sciences+ concept. This holistic approach reduces the distance between scientific
innovations and social applicability.
→ UM enters into strategic alliances with public and private partners to invest in
projects and initiatives that create value for society and improve the wellbeing of
citizens in our region and beyond. Crucial to this end is our intensive collaboration
with the Maastricht University Medical Centre+ and the Brightlands campuses.
Internationalisation: European network university with a global outlook
→ We provide an international learning experience and environment for all students
and staff. Our International Classroom, international networks and partnerships,
exchange programmes and focus on cross-border mobility enhance the quality of
our education and research.
→ Our European profile is reflected in and reinforced by our unique international
student population and our many cross-border collaborations, study programmes,
research programmes and other initiatives with a European focus. We will
strengthen our profile as a network university and actively seek new opportunities
for international collaboration.
→ Building on this European perspective, we are also investing in global engagement.
Our ambition is to be a catalyst for Euregional and European development
and, building on this foundation, to forge links with the world to tackle global
challenges.
July 2021
www.maastrichtuniversity.nl